# DH- and New Media-friendly Journals*  
*Indicates open access 

## Directory 
[A](#a) | [B](#b) | [C](#c) | [D](#d) | [E](#e) | [F](#f) |
[G](#g) | [H](#h) | [I](#i) | [J](#j) | [K](#k) | [L](#l) |
[M](#m) | [N](#n) | [O](#o) | [P](#p) | Q | [R](#r) |
[S](#s) | [T](#t) | U | [V](#v) | W | X | Y | Z

## A


[**ADA: A Journal of Gender, New Media & Technology**](http://adanewmedia.org/) is an open-access peer reviewed journal, published twice a year. The first issue highlighted contributions from the field and was an invited issue. Issue 2 was our first peer reviewed issue that used a multi-level open peer review process. Ada is a product of the Fembot Collective and published and preserved through the University of Oregon Libraries. The University of Oregon’s Center for the Study of Women in Society and the School of Journalism and Communication provided seed funding and staff for Ada.

\*[**Amodern**](http://amodern.net/) is a peer-reviewed, open-access scholarly
journal  devoted to the study of media, culture, and poetics. Its purpose is
to  provide a forum for interdisciplinary conversations about the role of 
media and technology in contemporary cultural practices. We are  particularly
interested in those topics that normally escape scrutiny,  or are ignored or
excluded for whatever reason.

[**American Journal of Play**](http://www.journalofplay.org/about) is a forum
for discussing the history, science, and culture of play. The Journal aims to
increase awareness and understanding of the role of play in learning and human
development and the ways in which play illuminates cultural history. 

[**ASAP/Journal**](http://www.artsofthepresent.org/#!about/c3aa), the scholarly
journal of The Association for the Study of the Arts of the Present, is a forum
for groundbreaking scholarship that examines the range and significance of the
visual, media, literary, architectural, and performing arts. ASAP/Journal
recognizes the increasingly interdisciplinary nature of contemporary art and
the increasingly cross-disciplinary nature of dialogue about it. We invite
submission of scholarly essays that examine contemporary arts fields
(literature, sculpture, film, theater, music, media art, etc.) or topics
related to the intersection of these fields in art and theory. The journal
welcomes essays on international arts and arts movements of any kind,
unrestricted by national, ethnic, religious, or gender borders and boundaries,
and is committed to exploring the full cultural and geographic diversity, as
well as the creative and conceptual rigor, of the contemporary arts.

[[top]](#directory)

## B 

\*[**Big Data & Society**](http://bds.sagepub.com/) is an open access
peer-reviewed scholarly journal that publishes interdisciplinary work
principally in the social sciences, humanities and computing and their
intersections with the arts and natural sciences about the implications of Big
Data for societies. The Journal's key purpose is to provide a space for
connecting debates about the emerging field of Big Data practices and how they
are reconfiguring academic, social, industry, business and government
relations, expertise, methods, concepts and knowledge.

[[top]](#directory)

## C

[**C-Theory**](http://www.ctheory.net/home.aspx) is a peer-reviewed academic
journal published since 1996. It focuses on technology, media theory, and
culture, publishing articles, interviews, book reviews and "event-scenes." It
is edited by Arthur and Marilouise Kroker. The journal is published by the
University of Victoria, BC, Canada. 

[**Catalyst: Feminism, Theory, and
Technoscience**](http://catalystjournal.org/ojs/index.php/catalyst/index)
serves the expanding interdisciplinary field of feminist science and
technology studies (STS) by supporting theoretically inventive and
methodologically creative scholarship incorporating approaches from critical
public health, disability studies, postcolonial studies, queer theory,
sci-art, technology and digital media studies, history and philosophy of
science and medicine.

\*[**Computational Culture**](http://computationalculture.net/) is an online
open-access peer-reviewed journal of  inter-disciplinary enquiry into the
nature of cultural computational objects, practices, processes and structures.

[**Computers in the Humanities Working
Papers**](http://projects.chass.utoronto.ca/chwp/) are an interdisciplinary
series of refereed publications on computer-assisted  research. They are a
vehicle for an intermediary stage at which  questions of computer methodology
in relation to the corpus at hand are  of interest to the scholar before the
computer disappears into the  background. 

[**Computers and
Composition**](http://www.journals.elsevier.com/computers-and-composition/) is
devoted to exploring the use of computers in writing classes, writing programs,
and writing research. It provides a forum for discussing issues connected with
writing and computer use. It also offers information about integrating
computers into writing programs on the basis of sound theoretical and
pedagogical decisions, and empirical evidence. It welcomes articles, reviews,
and letters to the Editors that may be of interest to readers, including
descriptions of computer-aided writing and/or reading instruction, discussions
of topics related to computer use of software development; explorations of
controversial ethical, legal, or social issues related to the use of computers
in writing programs; and to discussions of how computers affect form and
content for written discourse, the process by which this discourse is produced,
or the impact this discourse has on an audience. 

[**Configurations**](https://www.press.jhu.edu/journals/configurations/)
explores the relations of literature and the arts to the sciences and
technology. Founded in 1993, the journal continues to set the stage for
transdisciplinary research concerning the interplay between science,
technology, and the arts. Configurations is the official publication of the
Society for Literature, Science, and the Arts (SLSA). 

\*[**Culture Machine**](http://www.culturemachine.net) is an international
open-access journal of culture and theory, founded in 1999. Its aim is to be to
cultural studies and cultural theory what 'fundamental research' is to the
natural sciences: open-ended, non-goal orientated, exploratory and
experimental. All contributions to the journal are peer-reviewed. 

[**Cyberpsychology, Behavior, and Social
Networking**](http://www.liebertpub.com/cyber) is the essential,  peer-reviewed
journal for understanding the social and psychological impact of today’s social
networking practices. Highly regarded as the go-to source in the field, the
Journal has followed the trend of social networking and virtual reality for the
past 15 years. It is known for its rapid communication articles and in-depth
studies surrounding the  effects of interactive technologies on behavior and
society, both positive and negative.

[[top]](#directory)

## D

[**Design and Culture**](http://designandculture.org) seeks to establish a
dynamic relationship between design and its many cultural contexts.
Encompassing the numerous professional fields of design and so-called "amateur
design," the journal identifies and explores the cultural roots of design
process, practice and reception. The journal aims to broaden discourse by
examining design's relation to other academic disciplines, including marketing,
management, cultural studies, anthropology, material culture, geography, visual
culture, or political economy as well as finding congruence between
traditional, studio-based divisions within design practice, such as graphic,
product, industrial, or environmental.

[**DHCommons**](http://dhcommons.org/journal) is the official Alliance of
Digital Humanities Organizations (ADHO)-sponsored publication of centerNet, the
international network of Digital Humanities Centers with the support of the
European DARIAH infrastructure in the Arts and Humanities. The DHCommons
journal overlays and interacts with the DHCommons project registry and will
provide peer review for mid-stage digital projects. The most ambitious aim of
DHCommons is to make visible the important, developmental work that often goes
unseen in the midst of a DH project and to help DH scholars claim departmental,
disciplinary, and institutional credit for that labor. DHCommons will become
the robust and recognizable system of academic credit that its practitioners
require.

[**Digital Creativity**](http://www.tandfonline.com/toc/ndcr20/current) is a
major peer-reviewed journal at the  intersection of the creative arts and
digital technologies. It  publishes articles of interest to those involved in
the practical task  and theoretical aspects of making or using digital media in
creative  contexts. By the term 'creative arts' we include such disciplines as 
fine art, graphic design, illustration, photography, printmaking,  sculpture,
3D design, interaction design, product design, textile and  fashion design,
film making, animation, games design, music, dance,  drama, creative writing,
poetry, interior design, architecture, and  urban design.

[**Digital Culture & Society**](http://digicults.org/) is a refereed,
international journal, fostering discussion about the ways in which digital
technologies, platforms and applications reconfigure daily lives and
practices. It offers a forum for critical analysis and inquiries into digital
media theory. The newly established journal provides a publication environment
for interdisciplinary research approaches, contemporary theory developments
and methodological innovation in digital media studies. It invites reflection
on how culture unfolds through the use of digital technology, and how it
conversely influences the development of digital technology itself.

[**Digital Culture & Education**](http://www.digitalcultureandeducation.com/)
is an international inter-disciplinary peer-reviewed journal. This interactive,
open-access web-published journal is for those interested in digital culture
and education. The journal is devoted to analysing the impact of digital
culture on identity, education, art, society, culture and narrative within
social, political, economic, cultural and historical contexts. 

[**Digital Humanities Journal**](http://journalofdigitalhumanities.org/)
offers expanded coverage  of the digital humanities in three ways. First, by
publishing scholarly  work beyond the traditional research article. Second, by
selecting  content from open and public discussions in the field. Third, by
encouraging continued discussion through peer-to-peer review.

\*[**Digital Humanities Quarterly**](http://digitalhumanities.org/dhq/) is an
open-access, peer-reviewed, digital journal covering all aspects of digital
media in the humanities. Published by the [Alliance of Digital Humanities
Organizations](http://www.digitalhumanities.org/
"http://www.digitalhumanities.org/") (ADHO), DHQ is also a community
experiment in journal publication, with a commitment to:---experimenting with
publication formats and the rhetoric of digital authoring--- co-publishing
articles with Literary and Linguistic Computing (a well-established  print
digital humanities journal) in ways that---using open standards to deliver
journal content -   developing translation services and multilingual reviewing
in keeping with the strongly international character of ADHO

[**Digital Literary Studies**](http://journals.psu.edu/dls/index) is an
international peer-reviewed interdisciplinary publication with a focus on those
aspects of Digital Humanities primarily concerned with literary studies.
Digital Literary Studies publishes scholarly articles on research concerned
with computational approaches to literary analysis/criticism, or
critical/literary approaches to electronic literature, digital media, and
textual resources. In addition to longer, more traditionally-formed articles,
this journal publishes positional papers and articles with a shorter
experimental focus, as well as reviews of books and electronic literature.
Contributors may also submit curated electronic texts for peer-review, as well
as thoroughly-documented hermeneutical methods and tools. Any digital project
with a literary focus, whether that be a digital edition, tool, or otherwise,
may be considered for peer-review.

[**Digital Philology: A Journal of Medieval
Cultures**](http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/digital_philology/toc/dph.2.2.html)
reveals alternative modes of contact for medieval scholars, librarians and
archivists specializing in Middle Ages study and Medieval texts, made possible
by the emergence of digital resources and by engagement with the Digital
Humanities. The Journal pushes traditional national and temporal boundaries as
the first such publication linking peer-reviewed research and scholarship with
the digital libraries of medieval manuscripts such as The Digital Library of
Medieval Manuscripts and Parker on the Web. Published twice a year, Digital
Philology includes scholarly essays, manuscript studies, and reviews of
relevant resources such as websites, digital projects, and books.

[**Digital Studies / Le champ
numérique**](http://www.digitalstudies.org/ojs/index.php/digital_studies) is a
refereed academic journal serving as a formal arena for scholarly  activity
and as an academic resource for researchers in the digital  humanities. DS/CN
is published by the [Society for Digital Humanities / Société pour l'étude des
médias interactifs (SDH/SEMI)](http://www.sdh-semi.org/
"http://www.sdh-semi.org/"), a partner in the [Alliance of Digital Humanities
Organisations (ADHO)](http://www.digitalhumanities.org/
"http://www.digitalhumanities.org/"). DS/CN was founded for SDH/SEMI at the
Electronic Textual Cultures Lab, University of Victoria, in 2008 by Ray
Siemens and Christian Vandendorpe.

[**Discourse: Journal for Theoretical Studies in Media and
Culture**](http://digitalcommons.wayne.edu/discourse/) explores a variety of
topics in contemporary cultural studies, theories of media and literature, and
the politics of sexuality, including questions of language and psychoanalysis.
The journal publishes valuable and innovative essays on a wide range of
cultural phenomena, promoting theoretical approaches to literature, film, the
visual arts, and related media.

[**Discourse & Society**](http://das.sagepub.com/) is a leading international 
peer-reviewed journal whose major aim is to publish outstanding research  at
the boundaries of discourse analysis and the social sciences. It  focuses on
explicit theory formation and analysis of the relationships  between the
structures of text, talk, language use, verbal interaction  or communication,
on the one hand, and social, political or cultural  micro- and macrostructures
and cognitive social representations, on the other. It is edited by Teun A. van
Dijk.

[[top]](#directory)

## E

[**Enculturation**](http://www.enculturation.net/) is a refereed journal devoted to contemporary theories of rhetoric, writing, and culture. We accept academic work in all media forms suitable for web-based publication, including conventional articles, videos, and multimedia projects. Submitted articles and projects are blind-reviewed and considered for publication on the understanding that they are not under consideration elsewhere. Traditional articles should be approximately 5000-7000 words long and reviews should be approximately 1000-2000 words. We also welcome submissions to our Responses section, which invites projects and essays that take up events, controversies, topics, themes, terms, and ideas. Responses are scholarly works that are theoretically informed but publicly accessible for wide audiences in a wide variety of media.

\*[**Electronic Book Review**](http://www.electronicbookreview.com/) is an
open-access, peer-reviewed journal of  critical writing produced and published
by the emergent digital  literary network. ebr threads include essays
addressing a wide range of  topics across the arts, sciences, and humanities.
Our editors are  particularly interested in critically savvy, in-depth work
addressing  the digital future of literature, theory, criticism, and the arts.

[**Eludamos**](http://www.eludamos.org/index.php/eludamos/index) is an
international, multi-disciplined, biannual e-journal that publishes
peer-reviewed articles that theoretically and/or empirically deal with digital
games in their manifold appearances and their sociocultural-historical
contexts. ELUDAMOS positions itself as a publication that fundamentally
transgresses disciplinary boundaries. The aim is to join questions about and
approaches to computer games from decidedly heterogeneous scientific contexts
(for example cultural studies, media studies, (art) history, sociology,
(social) psychology, and semiotics) and, thus, to advance the interdisciplinary
discourse on digital games. This approach does not exclude questions about the
distinct features of digital games a an aesthetic and cultural form of
articulation, on the contrary, the issue is to distinguish their media specific
characteristics as well as their similarity to other forms of aesthetic and
cultural practice. That way, the editors would like to contribute to the
lasting distinction of international game studies as an academic discipline. 

[**Ethics and Information
Technology**](http://www.springer.com/computer/swe/journal/10676) is a
peer-reviewed journal dedicated to advancing the dialogue between moral
philosophy and the field of information and communication technology (ICT). The
journal aims to foster and promote reflection and analysis which is intended to
make a constructive contribution to answering the ethical, social and political
questions associated with the adoption, use, and development of ICT.

[[top]](#directory)

## F

\*[**The Fibreculture Journal**](http://fibreculturejournal.org/) is a peer
reviewed international journal, first published in 2003 to explore issues and
ideas within the Fibreculture network. The Fibreculture Journal now serves
wider social formations across the international community. We work with those
thinking critically about, and working with, contemporary digital and networked
media.

\*[**First Monday**](http://firstmonday.org) is one of the first openly
accessible, peer–reviewed journals on the Internet, solely devoted to the
Internet. Since its start in May 1996, First Monday has published 1,347 papers
in 213 issues; these papers were written by 1,829 different authors. First
Monday is indexed in Communication Abstracts, Computer & Communications
Security Abstracts, DoIS, eGranary Digital Library, INSPEC, Information Science
& Technology Abstracts, LISA, PAIS, and other services. 

\*[**Future Internet**](http://www.mdpi.com/journal/futureinternet) is a
scholarly open access journal which provides an advanced forum for scientific
studies related to Internet technologies and the information society. It
publishes regular research papers, reviews and short communications. Our aim is
to encourage scientists to publish their experimental and theoretical results
in as much detail as possible. Therefore, there is no restriction on the length
of the papers or the use of color figures. The full experimental details must
be provided so that the results can be reproduced. There are, in addition,
unique features of this journal: -   manuscripts regarding research proposals
and research ideas will be particularly welcomed -   electronic files or
software regarding the full details of the calculation and experimental
procedure, if unable to be published in a normal way, can be deposited as
supplementary material -   we also accept manuscripts communicating to a
broader audience with regard to research projects financed with public funds.

[[top]](#directory)

## G

[**Game Studies**](http://gamestudies.org/1103) explores the rich cultural
genre of games; gives scholars a peer-reviewed forum for their ideas and
theories; provides an academic channel for the ongoing discussions on games and
gaming.

[**Grey Room**](http://www.mitpressjournals.org/loi/grey) brings together
scholarly and theoretical articles from the fields of architecture, art, media,
and politics to forge a cross-disciplinary discourse uniquely relevant to
contemporary concerns.  Publishing some of the most interesting and original
work within these disciplines, Grey Room has positioned itself at the forefront
of the most current aesthetic and critical debates. Featuring original
articles, translations, interviews, dossiers, and academic exchanges, Grey
Room's emphasis on aesthetic practice and historical and theoretical discourse
appeals to a wide range of readers, including architects, artists, scholars,
students, and critics. Zeynep Çelik Alexander, Lucia Allais, Eric C.H. de
Bruyn, Gabriella Coleman, Noam M. Elcott, John Harwood, Matthew C. Hunter,
Editors. 

[[top]](#directory)

## H

[**Historical Materialism**](http://www.historicalmaterialism.org/) is a
Marxist journal, appearing four times a year, based in London. Founded in
1997, it asserts that, notwithstanding the variety of its practical and
theoretical articulations, Marxism constitutes the most fertile conceptual
framework for analysing social phenomena, with an eye to their overhaul. In
our selection of materials, we do not favour any one tendency, tradition or
variant. Marx demanded the ‘merciless criticism of everything that exists’:
for us that includes Marxism itself.

[**Historical Social Research**](http://www.gesis.org/en/hsr/profile/) is an
international peer-reviewed journal for the application of formal methods in
history. The application of formal methods to history covers quantitative and
computer-assisted qualitative social research, historical sociology and social
scientific history, cliometrical research, and historical informational
science. In a broader sense, the field of Historical Social Research can be
described as an inter-/ transdisciplinary paradigm. The HSR is user-, methods-,
and data-orientated, with the journal focusing on inter- and transdisciplinary
research. An international editorial board is in charge of the content and,
thanks to close cooperation with the network partners and user organizations
within the field of historical social research, the journal participates
intensively in current research discussions.

[**History of the Present**](http://historyofthepresent.org) is a journal devoted to history as a critical endeavor. Its aim is twofold: to create a space in which scholars can reflect on the role history plays in establishing categories of contemporary debate by making them appear inevitable, natural, or culturally necessary; and to publish work that calls into question certainties about the relationship between past and present that are taken for granted by the majority of practicing historians. We seek to encourage the critical examination of history’s influence on politics and the politics of the discipline of history itself. No history journal currently published has devoted itself specifically to fostering this work and providing a dedicated forum for it. Indeed, at a moment when history, and the social sciences more generally, seems preoccupied with the fantasy of retrieving pre-critical empirical knowledge, a journal committed to history as a form of critique seems more necessary than ever. It is in the rigorous, theoretically-informed writing of history, based mainly on evidence from archives, texts, and other sources, rather than writing about “history” from an abstract philosophical or historiographical perspective, that our contributors will offer readers an alternative to approaches that predominate in existing journals.

\*[**Human Computation**](http://hcjournal.org) is an international and
interdisciplinary forum for the electronic publication and print archiving of
high-quality scholarly articles in all areas of human computation, which
concerns the design or analysis of information processing systems in which
humans participate as computational elements.

[**Human IT**](http://etjanst.hb.se/bhs/ith/humanit-eng.htm) is a
multi-disciplinary and scholarly journal with the goal of  bringing forth new
research and discussion about digital media as  communicative, aesthetic, and
ludic instruments. The journal is closely  aligned with the new field of
research which is alternatively referred  to as humanities computing, social
informatics, or informatica  umanistica. We welcome contributions from the
humanities, the social,  behavioural, and natural sciences, as well as
technology. Human IT  aspires to be a forum for new research which risks
falling outside of  the borders of intra-disciplinary channels of publication
as a result of  its multi-disciplinary approach or unorthodox choice of
subject. A  consequence of this interdisciplinary ambition is that Human IT is 
published jointly by the departments of the University College of Borås.  It
also works with an extended editorial board which includes  representatives
from many different scholarly disciplines, practices,  and countries.

[**Humanist Studies & the Digital
Age**](http://journals.oregondigital.org/hsda) is devoted to the reformulation
of received philological and philosophical ideas of writing and reading
literary works, motivated by the advent of electronic texts. The journal
encourages new theoretical engagements based on comparative media studies,
translations and interdisciplinary approaches to a new humanist philology, and
a new humanist philosophy, made possible by digital technology. While the
Editorial Board considers studies on Petrarch and the humanist age in all its
manifestations and the Oregon Petrarch Open Book the seminal topics of
discussion of HUMANIST STUDIES & THE DIGITAL AGE, we also encourage submissions
that investigate more generally the interface of philological, interpretative,
and digital inquiry. 

\*[**Hyperrhiz**](http://hyperrhiz.io/) is an open access publication produced twice-yearly along with our parent journal Rhizomes: Cultural Studies in Emerging Knowledge and our monograph series project Electric Press. We welcome submissions of net art, new media scholarship and criticism, and reviews of media-related books or blogs. For submission criteria, please read our latest call for papers and our guidelines for submissions.

[[top]](#directory)

## I

[**Information & Culture: A Journal of
History**](http://www.infoculturejournal.org/about) publishes high-quality,
peer reviewed articles on the history of information. The journal honors its
(45+ year) heritage by continuing to publish in the areas of library, archival,
museum, conservation, and information science history. However, the journal's
scope has been broadened significantly beyond these areas to include the
historical study of any topic that would fall under the purview of any of the
modern interdisciplinary schools of information, such as the school in which
the journal is edited, the School of Information at The University of Texas at
Austin. In keeping with the spirit of the information schools, the work is
human centered and looks at the interactions of people, organizations, and
societies with information and technologies. Social and cultural context of
information and information technology, viewed from an historical perspective,
is at the heart of the journal's interests. Typical papers might focus, among
other topics, on the histories of information institutions, academic domains,
professions, work, and societies. The intention is to juxtapose papers on a
wide variety of topics related to the history of information so as to stimulate
connections that have not been made, for example between the research of
library historians, historians of computing, labor historians, gender
historians, economic historians, business historians, political and diplomatic
historians, cultural studies scholars, critical theorists, and science and
technology scholars.

[**The Information Society**](http://www.indiana.edu/~tisj/) is key critical
forum for leading edge analysis of the impacts, policies,  system concepts, and
methodologies related to information technologies  and changes in society and
culture. Some of the key information  technologies include computers and
telecommunications; the sites of  social change include homelife, workplaces,
schools, communities and  diverse organizations, as well as new social forms in
cyberspace.

[**International Journal of Communication**](http://ijoc.org) is an online,
multi-media, academic journal that adheres to the highest standards of peer
review and engages established and emerging scholars from anywhere in the
world. The International Journal of Communication is an interdisciplinary
journal that, while centered in communication, is open and welcoming to
contributions from the many disciplines and approaches that meet at the
crossroads that is communication study. We encourage readers to REGISTER now. 

[[top]](#directory)

## J

[**Jahrbuch für
Computerphilologie**](http://computerphilologie.digital-humanities.de/ejournal.html).
Online bietet ein Forum für die Diskussion der vielfältigen Möglichkeiten, den
Computer in der literaturwissenschaftlichen Arbeit einzusetzen: z.B. für die
computergestützte Inhaltsanalyse und Stiluntersuchung, für
computerunterstützte und elektronische Editionen, für digitale
Fachinformationen, Hypertexterstellung und -analyse u.a.m. Der größere Teil
der hier erscheinenden Aufsätze und Rezensionen wird auch im Jahrbuch für
Computerphilologie (mentis Verlag) veröffentlicht. Die Online-Version der
Texte und deren Druckfasssung sind nach der Veröffentlichung des Jahrbuchs
textidentisch.

[**The Jefferson Journal of Science and
Culture**](http://www.jeffersonjournal.org) was founded on the belief  that
the cross-pollination of various disciplines will be a crucial  factor in the
advance of scholarship. To facilitate and focus such  exchange, this bi-annual
journal is dedicated to publishing articles in  each edition, which address a
specific topic of broader interest.  Scholars from various fields are expected
not to dispense with the robes  of their specialty but to allow their
disciplinary expertise to make an  impact beyond its customary bounds.

[**Journal of the Association for Information Science and
Technology**](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10.1002/%28ISSN%291097-4571)
is a leading international forum for peer-reviewed research in information
science. For more than half a century, JASIST has provided intellectual
leadership by publishing original research that focuses on the production,
discovery, recording, storage, representation, retrieval, presentation,
manipulation, dissemination, use, and evaluation of information and on the
tools and techniques associated with these processes. The Journal welcomes
rigorous work of an empirical, experimental, ethnographic, conceptual,
historical, socio-technical, policy-analytic, or critical-theoretical nature.
JASIST also commissions in-depth review articles (“Advances in Information
Science”) and reviews of print and other media.

[**Journal of Broadcasting & Electronic Media**](http://beaweb.org/jobem.htm)
is the scholarly journal published quarterly by the Broadcast Education
Association. Considered one of the leading publications in the Communication
field, the Journal contains timely articles about new developments, trends and
research in electronic media written by academicians, researchers and other
electronic media professionals.

\*[**Journal of Comparative Research in Sociology and
Anthropology**](http://compaso.eu/about/) is an online, open access,
peer-reviewed publication edited by the Department of Sociology and the
Doctoral School of Sociology of the University of Bucharest. Compaso aims to
support the exploration of the mutual constitution of social realities and
forms of knowledge, by drawing attention to their multiplicity and complicity
in action. The Journal publishes original research encouraging a comparative
approach that musters and confronts multiple strands of theoretical
orientation, methods, materials, pieces of research or other social realities.
We encourage the submission of research articles that answer theoretically
informed questions with sound argumentation based on empirical data, using
qualitative or quantitative analyses. The Journal also publishes research
notes, review articles, theoretical essays, and book reviews relevant for
comparative research.

[**Journal of Cultural Analytics**](http://culturalanalytics.org/) is a new
open-access journal dedicated to the computational study of culture. Its aim
is to promote high quality scholarship that intervenes in contemporary debates
about the study of culture using computational and quantitative methods.

[**Journal of Data Mining and Digital
Humanities**](http://jdmdh.episciences.org/) is concerned with the
intersection of computing and the disciplines of the humanities, with tools
provided by computing such as data visualization, information retrieval,
statistics, text mining by publishing scholarly work beyond the traditional
humanities.

[**The Journal of Electronic
Publishing**](http://www.journalofelectronicpublishing.org/) is a forum for
research and discussion about contemporary publishing practices, and the
impact of those practices upon users. Our contributors and readers are
publishers, scholars, librarians, journalists, students, technologists,
attorneys, and others with an interest in the methods and means of
contemporary publishing. At its inception in January 1995, JEP carved out an
important niche by recognizing that print communication was in the throes of
significant change, and that digital communication would become an
important—and in some cases predominant—means for transmitting published
information. 

[**Journal of Human-Robot
Interaction**](http://humanrobotinteraction.org/journal/index.php/HRI) aims to
be the leading peer-reviewed nterdisciplinary journal of human-robot
interaction. Publication preference is given to articles that contribute to the
state of the art or advance general knowledge, have broad interest, and are
written to be intelligible to a wide range of audiences. JHRI encourages
submission of well-written papers from all fields, including robotics, computer
science, engineering, design, and the behavioral and social sciences. Published
scholarly papers can address topics including how people interact with robots
and robotic technologies, how to improve these interactions and make new kinds
of interaction possible, and the effects of such interactions on organizations
or society. The editors are also interested in receiving proposals for special
issues on particular technical problems or that leverage research in HRI to
advance other areas such as social computing, consumer behavior, health, and
education.t the leading peer-reviewed interdisciplinary journal of human-robot
interaction.  Publication preference is given to articles that contribute to
the state of the art or advance general knowledge, have broad interest, and are
written to be intelligible to a wide range of audiences.

\*[**Journal of Interactive
Humanities**](http://Journal%20of%20Interactive%20Humanities) is a
peer-reviewed, open access  journal that provides an important forum for the
development of new  methods of outreach such as interactive games and media for
museums,  digitizing archives, cultural heritage preservation, and other
endeavors  in the humanities. Articles explore the intersection between
narrative,  interactive media, material culture, education and public outreach 
within the humanities from a variety of perspectives.

\*[**The Journal of Interactive Technology and
Pedagogy**](http://jitp.commons.gc.cuny.edu/) promotes open scholarly
discourse around critical and creative uses of digital technology in teaching,
learning, and research. Educational institutions have often embraced
instrumentalist conceptions and market-driven implementations of technology
that overdetermine its uses in academic environments. Such approaches
underestimate the need for critical engagement with the integration of
technological tools into pedagogical practice. The JITP endeavors to counter
these trends by recentering questions of pedagogy in our discussions of
technology in higher education. The journal also works to change what counts
as scholarship—and how it is presented, disseminated, and reviewed—by allowing
contributors to develop their ideas, publish their work, and engage their
readers using multiple formats.

\*[**Journal of Media
Innovation**](https://www.journals.uio.no/index.php/TJMI/index) is an open
access journal that explores changes in media technologies, media policies,
organizational structures, media management, media production, journalism,
media services, and usages.

[**Journal of Peer Production**](http://peerproduction.net/) seeks high-quality
contributions from researchers and practitioners of peer production. We
understand peer  production as a mode of commons-based and oriented production
in which  participation is voluntary and predicated on the self-selection of 
tasks. Notable examples are the collaborative development of Free  Software
projects and of the Wikipedia online encyclopedia. 

[**Journal of Public Interest IP**](http://www.piipajournal.org/) is a
repository of knowledge from  thought leaders around the world that addresses
the need for pragmatic  intellectual property solutions to the challenges faced
by people in  developing countries.

[**Journal on Computing and Cultural Heritage**](http://jocch.acm.org) (JOCCH)
publishes papers of significant and lasting value in all areas relating to the
use of information and communication technologies (ICT) in support of Cultural
Heritage. The journal encourages the submission of manuscripts that demonstrate
innovative use of technology for the discovery, analysis, interpretation and
presentation of cultural material, as well as manuscripts that illustrate
applications in the Cultural Heritage sector that challenge the computational
technologies and suggest new research opportunities in computer science.
(JOCCH) publishes papers of significant and lasting value in all areas relating
to the use of information and communication technologies (ICT) in support of
Cultural Heritage. The journal encourages the submission of manuscripts that
demonstrate innovative use of technology for the discovery, analysis,
interpretation and presentation of cultural material, as well as manuscripts
that illustrate applications in the Cultural Heritage sector that challenge the
computational technologies and suggest new research opportunities in computer
science. JOCCH is published by the Association for Computing Machinery.

[[top]](#directory)

## K

[**Kairos: A Journal of Rhetoric, Technology, and
Pedagogy**](http://kairos.technorhetoric.net/about.html) is a refereed
open-access online journal exploring the intersections of rhetoric, technology,
and pedagogy. The journal reaches a wide audience—currently 45,000 readers per
month—hailing from Ascension Island to Zimbabwe (and from every top-level
domain country code in between); our international readership typically runs
about 4,000 readers per month. Kairos publishes bi-annually, in August and
January, with regular special issues in May.

[[top]](#directory)

## L

[**Lateral**](http://culturalstudiesassociation.org/lateral/) is the publishing
platform for the Cultural Studies Association (CSA). Our aims are to support,
leverage, and organize the capacities of those affiliated with CSA to develop
critical forms of publishing that are commensurate with innovative approaches
to knowledge making, political intervention, and material forms of cultural
expression. Lateral focuses on providing a place of experimentation in the
range of material forms so that the knowing, feeling, sensibility we ascribe to
the cultural can find an elastic and sustainable outlet for expression. In
short, Lateral is interested in recasting both the form and content of what
cultural studies can be. 

[**Lexicon
Philosophicum**](http://www.socolfil.org/noticias/328-lexicon-philosophicum-a-new-online-journal-rome.html)
is new online journal edited by the CNR’s Institute for the European 
Intellectual Lexicon and the History of Ideas, Rome. The Institute for the
European Intellectual Lexicon and the History of Ideas (ILIESI) is  going to
launch a new online journal: Lexicon Philosophicum,which aims to contribute
essays, short notes, and book-reviews to the history of ideas by focussing on
philosophical texts and terminolgy. A specific  section will be devoted to
digital philosophy. The journal will have an  interdisciplinary character, and
will welcome contributions from  philosophers, historians, philologists, and
linguists.

[**Digital Scholarship in the Humanities**](https://academic.oup.com/dsh) (Formerly Literary and Linguistic Computing) is an
international journal which publishes material on all aspects of  computing and
information technology applied to literature and language  research and
teaching. Papers include results of research projects,  description and
evaluation of techniques and methodologies, and reports  on work in progress.

[[top]](#directory)

## M

[**MedieKultur: Journal of Media and Communication
Research**](http://ojs.statsbiblioteket.dk/index.php/mediekultur) is a
double-blind peer reviewed journal published by SMID (Association of media
researchers in Denmark). The aim of *MedieKultur* is to contribute to critical
reflection and the development of theories and methods within media and
communication research. *MedieKultur*  publishes works of relevance to the
community of researchers in Denmark  exploring media and communication in
political, economic, cultural,  historic, aesthetic and social contexts.
*MedieKultur* does not represent particular theories or methods, but rather
focuses on innovative perspectives and clear argumentation.*MedieKultur* 
publishes theme issues with the aim of bringing Danish and  international media
and communication research into dialogue.  Accordingly, *MedieKultur* is a
publication forum for Danish and  international researchers, and papers as well
as reviews of relevant  contributions (books, blogs, websites and the like) can
be submitted  written in English, Danish, Swedish and Norwegian. The journal
addresses  students, educators and researchers at relevant educational and 
research institutions as well as individuals working in the media  business. 

[**Media-N**](http://median.newmediacaucus.org/) is blind peer-reviewed,
invitational, and open to submissions in the form of theoretical papers,
reports, and reviews on new media artworks. The journal provides a forum for
national and international New Media Caucus members and non-members featuring
their scholarly research, artworks and projects.The mission of the electronic
and print journals is to promote academic inquiry; to reflect the wide variety
of themes and areas in new media research; to further the evolving discourses
related to theory and practice; to showcase the work of new media artists and
their presentation environments; and to investigate the issues surrounding
education and new media. The journal has published articles by influential new
media theorists and practitioners such as:  Mark Amerika, Sarah Cook, Amy
Franceschini, Lynn Hershman Leeson, Jennifer and Kevin McCoy, Ken Rinaldo,
Laurence A. Rickels, Cornelia Sollfrank, and Faith Wilding.

[**Multimedia & Technology
Reviews**](https://arlisna.org/publications/multimedia-technology-reviews) The
ARLIS/NA Multimedia & Technology Reviews target projects, products, events,
and issues within the broad realm of multimedia and technology related to arts
scholarship, research, and librarianship. While assessing current products and
projects, these reviews are also designed to engage the membership in a
conversation about how technologies and multimedia are being or can be
deployed within our profession and by our constituents. The reviews are
published bi-monthly.

[[top]](#directory)

## N

[**NANO**](http://www.nanocrit.com/) is an interdisciplinary academic journal
whose goal is to invigorate humanities discourse by publishing brief,
peer-reviewed reports with a fast turnaround enabled by digital technologies.

[**Narrative**](http://narrative.georgetown.edu/journal/) is the official
journal of the International Society for the Study of Narrative. *Narrative*'s 
broad range of scholarship includes the English, American, and European  novel,
nonfiction narrative, film, and narrative as used in performance  art.

[**New American Notes Online**](http://www.nanocrit.com/mission/) The goal at
NANO is to invigorate humanities discourse by publishing brief, peer-reviewed
reports with a fast turnaround enabled by new technologies. We welcome original
notes from all fields in the humanities, particularly literature, film,
history, music, rhetoric, philosophy, art, and digital humanities. We also
welcome views from other disciplines that include, but are not limited to:
psychology, sociology, engineering, various fields of technology, the hard
sciences, and business. Each issue focuses on a special topic designed to
encourage new interpretations and new possibilities. We abjure jargon,
pandering, and ad hominem responses. Our ethos is brevity, clarity, and
elegance. We do not accept fiction or poetry; we do accept images, videos, and
sound recordings used in the presentation of notes. NANO welcomes creative
reflections, spirited debate, and cross-disciplinary dialogue.

[**New Directions in the
Humanities**](http://thehumanities.com/publications/journal) provide a space
for dialogue and publication of new knowledge which builds on the past
traditions of the humanities whilst setting a renewed agenda for their future.
The humanities are a domain of learning, reflection and action, and a place of
dialogue between and across epistemologies, perspectives and content areas. It
is in these unsettling places that the humanities might be able to unburden
modern knowledge systems of their restrictive narrowness. Discussions in the
New Directions in the Humanities Collection range from the broad and
speculative to the microcosmic and empirical. Their over-riding concern,
however, is to redefine our understandings of the human and mount a case for
the disciplinary practices of the humanities. At a time when the dominant
rationalisms are running a course that often seem to draw humanity towards less
than satisfactory ends, these journals reopen the question of the human—for
highly pragmatic as well as redemptory reasons.

[**New Media & Society**](http://nms.sagepub.com/) is a top-ranked,
peer-reviewed, international journal that publishes key research from
communication, media and cultural studies, as well as sociology, geography,
anthropology, economics, the political and information sciences and the
humanities. It is committed to high-quality research that explores the
relationship between theory, policy and practice.

[**nonsite.org**](http://nonsite.org) emerges in part out of interest in a set
of theoretical topics – the ontology of the work of art, the question of
intentionality, the ongoing appeal of different and sometimes competing
materialisms – and in part out of opposition to the dominant accounts of those
topics. Today, the various theoretical forms of neoliberalism – from the
postmodern to the posthuman, from the new historicism to the new pluralism –
have become so pervasive that they are nearly invisible. nonsite.org seeks
first to make them visible and then to make them less pervasive. Our goal is to
criticize what is and replace it with what we think ought to be. nonsite.org is
an online peer-reviewed quarterly journal of scholarship in the humanities,
plus poetry, editorials, reviews, visual art and more.  nonsite.org also
features “the Tank,” a forum for comment on provocative new scholarly work.

[[top]](#directory)

## O

\*[**Open Library of the Humanities**](https://www.openlibhums.org/) is a
trans-disciplinary open-access journal with no author fees, professional
digital preservation, DOIs and Committee on Publication Ethics-approved
peer-review practices.

[[top]](#directory)

## P

[**Philological
Encounters**](http://www.brill.com/products/journal/philological-encounters)
is a double-blind peer-reviewed journal dedicated to the historical and
philosophical critique of philology. The journal encourages critical and
comparative perspectives that integrate textual scholarship and the study of
language from across the world. Alongside four issues a year, monographs and/
or collected volumes will occasionally be published as supplements to the
journal. The journal is open to contributions in all fields studying the
history of textual practices, hermeneutics and philology, philological
controversies, and the intellectual and global history of writing, archiving,
tradition-making and publishing. Neither confined to any discipline nor bound
by any geographical or temporal limits, Philological Encounters takes as its
point of departure the growing concern with the global significance of
philology and the potential of historically conscious and politically critical
philology to challenge exclusivist notions of the self and the canon.
Philological Encounters welcomes innovative and critical contributions in the
form of articles as well as review articles, usually of two or three related
books, and preferably from different disciplines.

[**Philosophy and
Technology**](http://www.springer.com/philosophy/epistemology+and+philosophy+of+science/journal/13347)
addresses the expanding scope and unprecedented impact of technologies, in
order to improve the critical understanding of the conceptual nature and
practical consequences, and hence provide the conceptual foundations for their
fruitful and sustainable developments. The journal welcomes high-quality
submissions, regardless of the tradition, school of thought or disciplinary
background from which they derive.

[**PLOS ONE**](http://www.plosone.org/) features reports of original research
from all disciplines within science and medicine. By not excluding papers on
the basis of subject area, PLOS ONE facilitates the discovery of the
connections between papers whether within or between disciplines. 

[**Poetics**](http://www.journals.elsevier.com/poetics/#description) is an
interdisciplinary journal of theoretical and  empirical research on culture,
the media and the arts. Particularly  welcome are papers that make an original
contribution to the major  disciplines - sociology, psychology, media and
communication studies,  and economics - within which promising lines of
research on culture,  media and the arts have been developed. 

[**Popular
Communication**](http://www.tandfonline.com/action/aboutThisJournal?show=editorialBoard&journalCode=hppc20)
provides a forum for the scholarly investigation, analysis, and dialogue on
communication symbols, forms, phenomena, and strategic systems of symbols
within the context of contemporary popular culture. Popular Communication
publishes articles on all aspects of popular communication texts, artifacts,
audiences, events, and practices, including the Internet, youth culture,
representation, fandom, film, sports, spectacles, the digital revolution,
sexuality, advertising/consumer culture, television, radio, music, magazines,
and dance. The journal welcomes diverse theoretical and methodological
perspectives within the tradition of cultural studies.

\*[**The Programming Historian 2**](http://programminghistorian.org/) is a
tutorial-based open access textbook designed to teach humanists practical
computer programming skills that are immediately useful to real research needs.
But we haven’t stopped there. PH2 is also a community-driven collaborative
textbook. We welcome lessons and lesson ideas from anyone who thinks they have
a programming skill or technique that they’d like to share. All of our lessons
are peer-reviewed before they are incorporated as part of the live project to
ensure only high quality work reaches our learners. 

[**Public Culture**](http://publicculture.dukejournals.org/) is a
peer-reviewed interdisciplinary journal of cultural studies, sponsored by the
Institute for Public Knowledge. The journal provides a forum for the
discussion of the places and occasions where cultural, social, and political
differences emerge as public phenomena, manifested in everything from highly
particular and localized events in popular or folk culture to global
advertising, consumption, and information networks. Artists, activists, and
both well-established and younger scholars, from across the humanities and
social sciences and around the world, present some of their most innovative
and exciting work in the pages of Public Culture.

[[top]](#directory)

## R

[**Rhetoric Review**](http://www.tandf.co.uk/journals/titles/07350198.asp) is
a scholarly interdisciplinary journal of  rhetoric, publishes in all areas of
rhetoric and writing and provides a  professional forum for its readers to
consider and discuss current  topics and issues. The journal publishes
manuscripts that explore the  breadth and depth of the discipline, including
history, theory, writing,  praxis, philosophy, professional writing,
rhetorical criticism,  cultural studies, multiple literacies, technology,
literature, public  address, graduate education, and professional issues.

\*[**rhizomes**](http://www.rhizomes.net) oppose the idea that knowledge must
grow in a tree structure from previously accepted ideas. New thinking need not
follow established patterns. Rhizomes promotes experimental work located
outside current disciplines, work that has no proper location. As our name
suggests, works written in the spirit of Deleuzian approaches are welcomed but
not required. We are not interested in publishing texts that establish their
authority merely by affirming what is already believed. Instead, we encourage
migrations into new conceptual territories resulting from unpredictable
juxtapositions. 

[**RIDE**](http://ride.i-d-e.de/about/) is a review journal dedicated to
digital editions and resources. RIDE aims to direct attention to digital
editions and to provide a forum in which expert peers criticise and discuss the
efforts of digital editors in order to improve current practices and advance
future developments. It will do so by asking its reviewers to pay attention not
only to the traditional virtues and vices of any edition, but also to the
progressing methodology and its technical implications. Read more about RIDE in
our editorial.

[[top]](#directory)

## S

[**Science, Technology, & Human
Values**](https://us.sagepub.com/en-us/nam/science-technology-human-values/journal200858)
is a peer-reviewed, international, interdisciplinary journal containing
research, analyses and commentary on the development and dynamics of science
and technology, including their relationship to politics, society and culture.
The journal provides you with work from scholars in a diverse range of
disciplines across the social sciences. Among the disciplines you will find in
Science, Technology, & Human Values are: political science, sociology,
environmental studies, anthropology, literature, history, economics, and
philosophy. Donna Haraway and Bruno Latour among current / past editorial
board members.

\*[**Sociological Science**](http://www.sociologicalscience.com/) is an
open-access, online, peer-reviewed, international journal for social
scientists committed to advancing a general understanding of social processes.
Sociological Science welcomes original research and commentary from all
subfields of sociology, and does not privilege any particular theoretical or
methodological approach. Manuscripts of all types of sociological scholarship
are welcome, including but not restricted to interview-based and observational
ethnography, comparative historical analysis, lab and field experiments,
computational modeling and simulation, textual analysis, formal theory, and
quantitative statistical analyses. 

[**Social Science Computer Review**](http://ssc.sagepub.com/) is an
interdisciplinary journal covering social science instructional and research
applications of computing, as well as societal impacts of information
technology. Published quarterly, topics include: artificial intelligence,
business, computational social science theory, computer-assisted survey
research, computer-based qualitative analysis, computer simulation, economic
modeling, electronic modeling, electronic publishing, geographic information
systems, instructional media, instrumentation and research tools, public
administration, social impacts of computing and telecommunications, software
evaluation, and world-wide web resources for social scientists. 

[**Spheres: Journal for Digital
Cultures**](http://www.leuphana.de/en/research-centers/cdc/publications/spheres.html)
is concerned with contemporary, historical and emerging discussions about
‘Digital Cultures’ and exploring the theoretical, political and social stakes
within these debates by reassembling key concepts like public spheres, media
spheres and atmospheres./*

[**sx archipelagos**](http://smallaxe.net/sxarchipelagos/) sx archipelagos is
the latest born-digital articulation of the Small Axe Project. It is a
peer-reviewed publication platform devoted to creative exploration, debate,
and critical thinking about and through digital practices in contemporary
scholarly and artistic work in and on the Caribbean.

[[top]](#directory)

## T

[**TEXT: An Interdisciplinary Annual of Textual
Studies**](http://www.textual.org/)  endeavors to investigate the meaning and 
implications of textuality is designed to widen our understanding of how  new
developments in fields like codicology, material philology, art  history,
musicology and cultural studies are redefining and integrating  our notions of
what constitutes a text in diverse cultural contexts.

[**Textual
Practice**](http://www.tandfonline.com/action/journalInformation?show=aimsScope&journalCode=rtpr20)
is Britain’s principal international journal of radical literary studies,
continually pressing theory into new engagements. Today, as customary
relations among disciplines and media are questioned and transformed, Textual
Practice works at the turning points of theory with politics, history and
texts. It is intrigued by the processes through which hitherto marginal
cultures of ethnicity and sexuality are becoming conceptually central, and by
the consequences of these diverse disturbances for educational and cultural
institutions.

[**Thresholds**](http://openthresholds.org/) is a digital journal for
criticism in the spaces between, expected to debut Summer 2016. The journal's
platform bears witness to the dynamic processes that constitute reading and
writing by way of a split-screen digital architecture. On the left side of the
screen, we publish short essays (essayer — trial, attempt, test). The right
side of the screen is populated by the various text fragments, images, audio,
and video clips that inspired the author and propelled the corresponding work.
Unlike a footnote or endnote, these fragments are not explicitly harnessed to
the essay's main body; they do not rustle the reader toward a specific
interpretative conclusion. Instead, they invite the reader to engage in a
series of generative traversals across the central threshold. In this way,
thresholds models criticism as a restless and unruly venture that takes place
in the spaces between readers, writers, and texts.

[**Transformations**](http://www.transformationsjournal.org) is an
independent, double-blind peer-reviewed electronic journal addressing the
transformative processes of new technologies and mediating practices that
change the way we think, feel and interact with others both in a contemporary
and historical sense. We welcome writing from the perspective of cultural
theory, critical philosophy, aesthetics, media studies and other humanities
approaches.

[[top]](#directory)

## V

[**Vectors**](http://www.vectorsjournal.org/issues/index.php) maps the
multiple contours of daily life in an unevenly digital  era, crystallizing
around themes that highlight the social, political,  and cultural stakes of
our increasingly technologically-mediated  existence. As such, the journal
speaks both implicitly and explicitly to  key debates across varied
disciplines, including issues of  globalization, mobility, power, and access.
Operating at the intersection of culture, creativity, and technology, the
journal focuses  on the myriad ways technology shapes, transforms,
reconfigures, and/or  impedes social relations, both in the past and in the
present.

[[top]](#directory)
